In this video I will explain you about iterator over string.
Aerators are used for traversing or accessing all the characters of a string.
Built in operators are available for string class.
This is a charter which will allow us to access a string in forward direction from left to right.
And this is a reverse iterator.
It will allow us to access a string in backward direction that is from right to left.
We can access all these characters from right to left.
One by one, we can access the characters.
So this iterator object will work like a pointer to a character in a string.
By using this iterator, we can either read an alphabet or a character as well as we can modify it.
Now let us see how to access this one.
So first of all, you should have an object of type iterator, so I will try it on the code here.
This is how we can declare iterator so it is not yet assigned to n string object.
So now I can assign it by writing it as iterator assign SDR or dot begin.
This is the function.
So this gives the beginning index of this string.
So say begin.
And similarly we have end.
So that gives the ending index of a string.
So if I have to iterate this all these characters in a string, then I can use a followup for first
of all starts from Begin.
And for moving the iterator to the next letter, I can say.
Iterator.
Plus.
Plus it plus plus.
Then I should stop when it has reached the end of a string.
Right.
So here.
Say a traitor is not equal to astronaut and.
Right.
So until it reaches NW, it will be gone.
Moving to the next letter and it will be accessing.
Suppose I want to print all the letters then see out now for printing a letter.
For accessing a letter.
As I said, this iterator will act like a pointer, so I should reference it for accessing a character.
C Start.
B So I'll get a letter.
So in this way, we can access all the characters one by one by using a follow up.
So here I am displaying and if you want to modify, you can modify it also.
Now same way we can use a reverse iterator.
Also that will start from the end of a string and when it reaches the beginning of a string it will
be R and that is reverse and will be true and iterator will be moving forward.
Only we will be saying iterator plus plus four moving on to next.
So next month it will be moving backwards.
But we don't have to say minus minus we have to use C++ only means moving ahead plus plus doesn't mean
add one moving ahead as it is moving in backward direction.
So far, it's moving ahead means moving on the left hand side.
So let us look at the removal of this one.
I will write down this code and show you here I have a string, so I will write down word today here
into this one then.
So first of all, I will take a iterator.
So inside a string iterator is there.
So even I can write down that iterator because I already have included this header file.
So iterator is taken now using for loop.
I will initialize iterator to str begin.
Right.
And I will continue as long as iterator is not equal to str dot and.
Then every time a traitor.
Plus, plus, it will be moving to the next letter.
Yeah.
I will see out by referencing it.
So this will be printing all the alphabets.
Let us take it.
Yes.
All the alphabets are painted.
Now all these are lowercase letters, so I'll make some changes here.
I will make them uppercase.
So for that, I should subtract 32 from each letter.
So it will become uppercase.
So I will say I'd assign it 32.
So now the string should become uppercase.
Now, at the end, I will print the string.
After the loop ends, I will print the string.
So it should print capital letters.
Yes, you can see that the string is modified so we can read as well as write a string.
Okay.
Now, next, as I said, there is a reverse iterator also.
So simply l make changes in the same code instead of writing it again.
Here I will say reverse underscore iterator and here I will say are begin and here I say our end.
So it will access in the reverse direction.
Now this modification may not help us understand it's working.
So I will say see out.
Start it.
Now I'll remove this.
Let us run.
Now you can see that the string is displayed in reverse, right?
Today is displayed in reverse.
So this will move this iterator from back end that is end of a string to the front end of the string.
So even you can use for loop for displaying all the characters of a string or you can use a iterator.
So I'll show you how you can do it.
Just using a follow up letter by letter.
Each letter we can display by using follow.
So I will say for integer I assign zero.
I is.
Star of I as not equal to slash and zero that is not character an A-plus plus and here I will say see
out.
Strove, I.
It will display all the letters.
Yeah.
Same thing is happening.
Even using iterator or just using for loop and the subscript operator.
The subscript operator.
We can access all the characters of a string.
I will try to modify it.
Let us see whether it works or not.
A steer of is assigned with the steer of I -32.
Then I will display this string.
It should change to uppercase.
Yes, it is changing.
So this is how we can access a string by using either iterator or by using Follow-Up.
So whichever you feel is simple for you, you can use that one.
So that's all about the iterator.
So you try this and practice them.
Next, we will look at some exercise programs.